TERMINUS
An apocalyptic tabletop skirmish game
Core Rules
Overview. 
Terminus is a fast paced, easy to learn, miniatures agnostic tabletop skirmish game. We highly recommend 3D printing your own models and terrain, or just finding whatever models fit your vibe. We recommend using 28mm heroic scale miniatures. 
Each player gets 4-10 models in their team per game. As well as 6D6.
The game usually consists of 4-6 battle rounds, each of which consists of 3 actions per player, scripted before the battle round starts, which eliminates decision paralysis and speeds up the game. 
Setting up the game.  Game materials: In order to play  TERMINUS you will need the following:
A set of faction rules for each player. I will release new faction rules periodically. 
A set of models for each player. Terminus doesn’t have any official model, use whatever models you like. We generally recommend using 28mm heroic scale. 
An action scripting set for each player. (which consists of cards and tokens) I’ll make a free printable set, or an online store where you can order nice fancy cards and tokens. 
Tokens to represent injury
A set of 6 objective markers. Could be coins, cool models, tokens. 
Board and terrain. Once again, use whatever board and terrain you’d like. We recommend 28mm heroic scale terrain. 
Mission pack. These will also be released periodically.  
Once you have gathered these things and set up a mission according to the mission pack, you are ready to play!
Mission: Secure Zone. 
Board and Terrain:
3’x3’ board with plenty of terrain, using your discretion. Participants work together to set up a board that both players agree on. 
Teams for the game:
Each player gets a team of 4 survivors. Or if you’re using other faction rules, muster and deploy a small team. 
Objective Markers: 
One player rolls 1d3+2. That is the number of objective markers for this mission. Players then roll off, the winner places the first objective marker, and then players alternate placing the rest until all objectives have been placed. 
Objective markers must be 6” from the board edge and other objective markers. 
Deployment:
Players roll off, and whoever wins the roll off chooses a board edge. The opponent gets the opposite board edge. 
Players then place all of their models within 9” of their board edge, starting with the player who won the roll off. 
Scoring:
At the end of the game, you score 3 points for each objective marker your team controls. (Control an objective marker by standing within 2” of the center)
You also score 1 point for each enemy model that is dead. 
Game Length:
At the end of battle round 4, a player rolls 1d6. On a 4+, there is one additional battle round. Otherwise the game ends and the final score is determined. 
The Flow of the Game: The Battle Round. 
 When the mission is determined, the board is set up, armies are deployed, it’s time to kick off the first battle round. Each battle round consists of 3 phases. (Scripting, resolving, and casualty phase.)
A. Scripting phase. 
If you haven't already placed a token by each of your models to label them with a letter, do so before starting the first battle round. Each player must script 3 actions per round. Do so by finding the responding card for the model that you wish to act, and action you’d like to script. Stack these action cards face down so your opponent can’t see them. The action you wish to resolve first on top, the action you wish to resolve last on bottom. Note: you can script for one model to take more than one action. In fact, you could have one model take all three of your actions for a turn. 
When both players have scripted 3 actions, players roll off. Whoever rolls higher decides whether to go first or second. If it’s a tie, re-roll, and whoever gets the higher number has to go first. 
B. Resolution Phase. 
Whoever rolls higher reveals and resolves their top action card first. Players then alternate activations until all activations have been resolved. If a scripted action can’t be carried out, you simply skip that activation and your opponent takes their next activation. 
Example. 
Player 1 reveals "A run." So, player 1 finds the model that they have labeled "A" and moves that model as far as their info sheet says they move when they take a "run" action. 
Player 2 reveals "G Aimed shot." So player 2 finds the model labeled "G" and resolves an aimed shooting attack against an eligible target. 
Player 1 reveals and resolves the next action, etc. 
C. Casualty Phase. 
At the end of each battle round, players must roll 1d3 for each of their models that have one or more injury tokens. If the result is equal to or less than the number of injuries that the model has, they die/bleed out/panic and stop fighting. You can remove these models from the board. 
Actions, and how they work.  
Aimed shot. A model that takes this action can make a shooting attack against any visible enemy, even if the enemy is not exposed or caught in the open. 
Move and Shoot. Move equal to that model’s move action, (which you can find on the info sheet for that model) and make a shooting attack against an visible target that is exposed or caught in the open. You can also choose to shoot first and then move, but the penalty for move and shoot still applies. (If there are no visible exposed or caught in the open models, you just skip the shooting step.)
Run. Move equal to 2x the model’s move action. Note that if a model is injured, you subtract the injury movement penalty after doubling the movement speed. 
Pass. Nothing happens. This is good if you have the position you want already and wish to remain concealed. 


An exposed model is a model that has already activated this turn. In addition, when making a shooting attack against an exposed target, the attacker may re-roll one die. 
A caught in the open model means you can draw a line from anywhere on the shooting model’s base to both sides of the target model’s base, and that line does not pass through cover(a terrain piece) that the target is within 1” of. 
A visible model means you can draw a line from anywhere on the base of both models without passing through a wall or terrain feature that would completely block the model from being seen. 
Making a shooting attack
 TO HIT
To make a shooting attack, roll 1d6 plus Penalty X 
Penalty X means roll additional D6s equal to the number of penalty circumstances and take the lowest result. 
If the result is 3 or higher, a hit is scored. 
If the hit is 6 or higher, it is a critical hit and the enemy target is instantly slain.  
Penalty circumstances. 
Target is within long range. 
Target is currently running. 
Shooter is performing move and shoot.
Each intersecting terrain piece between the shooter and the target incurs 1 penalty die, unless the shooting model is within 1” of the terrain piece they are shooting through. 
Each injury that the shooting model has incurs 1 penalty die. 
Penalty circumstances max out at 5. 
TO SAVE
When a hit is scored, the defending model rolls 1d6 for their armor save. If they are within 1” of cover and not caught in the open, the defending model can roll an additional 1D6 for their cover save and choose the highest result.
If you roll a 6, take no damage. 
If you roll a 1, slain instantly. 
If you roll 2-5, take an injury.
As soon as a model takes its 4th injury, it is immediately slain. 
Effects of injury. For each injury a model has, subtract 2” from any movement they perform. Note, this happens after doubling the movement speed for running models. (A standard model will move 10” running while injured) Injured models might also bleed out in the casualty phase. 

Out of Ammo. Some special rules allow you to fire until you run out of ammo. In addition, if you roll 2 or more dice and they are all misses, that weapon is considered out of ammo for the rest of the turn. It can’t be used for additional shooting actions that turn, and it can’t be used in a deadly shoot-out. (At the start of each turn, every model reloads automatically and the out of ammo status goes away.)
Deadly shoot-out. The melee mechanic/close quarters mechanic. 
When a model moves within 3” of an enemy, a deadly shootout happens. (This does not cost an action to trigger, it simply happens whenever two enemies are within 3” of each other.) 
A deadly shootout does not use the same rules as other shooting attacks. Instead, both participants assess for penalties and then roll off. Whoever rolls lower is slain instantly. 
If the result is a tie, both models suffer an injury and roll again until one or both models have been slain. 
If the winning model only wins by 1, they still slay the enemy, but take an injury as well. 
If the winning model wins by 2 or more, they have aced the enemy. The enemy is slain and the winning model takes no injuries. 
Deadly shootout modifiers:
Each injury a participant has generates 1 penalty die. 
If only one participant is caught in the open, the model that is caught in the open suffers 1 penalty die. If both participants are caught in the open then this penalty does not apply. 
Out of Ammo status generates penalty 1, unless that model has another weapon. 
A deadly shootout doesn’t end your activation: If you still have movement and actions left after resolving a deadly shootout, you may still use the rest of your movement/action. 


Basic Faction: Phase One Survivors. 
Phase one survivors are the people struggling to get by in the first week of the apocalypse. No one was really ready for this. No particular skills have been developed yet. A lot of these people will get eaten alive. Only the strong will survive. 

If this is your first game, we recommend using the bolt action rifle on all models until you get the hang of the game. 

Model Name: Phase One Survivor
Movement: 6”

Each survivor is equipped with one of the following weapons:

Bolt action/simple rifle. 
12” short range. 
24” long range. 
Precision: when making an attack with the “aimed shot” action, you can add 1 to the result of any single die. 

Shotgun.
9” short range. 
18” long range. 
Stopping power: a model shot within short range suffers 1d3 injuries instead of just 1. 

Pistol. 
6” short range. 
12” long range. 
Rapid fire: this model can re-roll any or all hit results of “1” in shooting attacks and deadly shootouts. 

For a small game, deploy 4 survivors. 
For a medium game, deploy 6 survivors. 
For a large game, deploy 8 survivors.

Additional factions with more rules will be available on the Terminus game website/patreon. 
